README.md, before:

## Turboboost ##

Turboboost extends the power of Turbolinks into the forms of your Rails app and provides additional convenient AJAX handlers for forms and links. It aims to be a seemless and logical addition to any Turbolinks-rocking Rails 3.2/4+ app. Currently it depends on jQuery. The main features are:

* Form response redirection is handled by Turbolinks.
* Customizable success and error handling through registered JavaScript, with support for Rails' Flash and optional error rendering built-in.
* Responses can also be rendered within a scoped DOM target using jQuery selectors.

### Installation ###

##### In your `Gemfile` #####

``` ruby
gem 'turboboost'
```

Or to live on the very edge:

``` ruby
gem 'turboboost', github: 'waymondo/turboboost'
```

Then `bundle install`.

##### In your `application.js` #####

``` javascript
//= require turboboost
```

This will also require jQuery, [jquery-ujs](https://github.com/rails/jquery-ujs), Turbolinks, if not already required. If you wish to register your scripts manually, you can like so:

``` javascript
//= require path/to/vendored/jquery
//= require jquery_ujs
//= require turbolinks
//= require turboboost/turboboost
```

##### In your view files #####

Add `turboboost: true` to your form / link helpers:

``` erb
<%= form_for :resource, turboboost: true do |f| ... %>

<%= link_to "Turboboosted Link", resource_path, turboboost: true %>
```

Or you can add the data attribute manually:

```
<form data-remote data-turboboost action="/foo"></form>

<a data-remote data-turboboost href="/bar"></a>
```

### Redirection with Turbolinks ###

In its simplest server-side implementation, a basic Turboboost controller action with redirection might look like this:

``` ruby
def create
  post = Post.create!(params[:post]) # <- trigger exception if model is invalid
  redirect_to post, notice: 'Post was successfully created.'
end
```

If the post is successfully created through a Turboboost-ed form, the app will visit the post's URL with Turbolinks. Otherwise, the redirect will happen like normal. You can opt out of redirecting through Turboboost with the attribute flag `data-no-turboboost-redirect`.

### Form GET requests ###

If a Turboboost form makes a GET request, it will serialize the form's data and then visit its action URL with the data serialized as parameters with Turbolinks. This allows Turbolinks-powered cached push/popState history navigation of controller actions with different parameter values (like a search form).

### Automatic form disabling handling ###

To prevent double-clicks on submit buttons from firing the form's action twice, Turboboost comes with automatic form disabling/enabling by default. When you restore a page from Turbolinks' cache, it will re-enable any submit buttons that it had disabled. You can disable this behavior and control your form's submittable state manually with:

``` coffee
Turboboost.handleFormDisabling = false
```

### Error handling ###

If the post in our example above is invalid, no redirect will happen and a `rescue_from` handler will pass the errors to JavaScript through the `turboboost:error` event:

``` coffee
$(document).on "turboboost:error", (e, errors) ->
  console.log(errors) # <- JSON array of errors messages
```

You can also trigger the JSON error messages explicitly with the method `render_turboboost_errors_for(record)` if you don't want to use the default `rescue_from` handler:

``` ruby
def create
  @post = Post.new(post_params)
  if @post.save
    flash[:notice] = 'Post was successfully created.'
    redirect_to @post
  else
    respond_to do |format|
      format.html { render :new }
      format.js { render_turboboost_errors_for(@post) }
    end
  end
end
```

Check out the [test controllers](https://github.com/waymondo/turboboost/tree/master/test/controllers) for more examples of controller syntax.

#### Automatic error message insertion ####

Optionally, Turboboost can render returned errors with the same HTML structure used in the default Rails generators and prepend it to the form. The HTML structure looks like this:

``` html
<div id="error_explanation">
  <ul>
    {{#errors}}
      <li>{{this}}</li>
    {{/errors}}
  </ul>
</div>
```

To turn it on:

``` coffeescript
Turboboost.insertErrors = true # same as 'prepend'
# other possible values:
# Turboboost.insertErrors = 'append'
# Turboboost.insertErrors = 'beforeSubmit'
# Turboboost.insertErrors = 'afterSubmit'
# can also be a jQuery selector:
# Turboboost.insertErrors = '.error-wrap'
```

#### Error internationalization ####

Turboboost will handle invalid `ActiveRecord` and `ActiveModel` error messages as well as basic HTTP error messages. For ActiveRecord validations, it will use [Rails' I18n lookup](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/i18n.html#translations-for-active-record-models) to retrieve the message wording. For other raised exceptions, you can customize the basic wording using the I18n namespace format `turboboost.errors.#{error.class.name}`:

``` yaml
en:
  turboboost:
    errors:
      "ActiveRecord::RecordNotFound": "Shoot, didn't find anything."
```

### Ajax flash message handling ###

There is also a `turboboost:success` event that is triggered and passed all current flash messages if they are present:

``` coffeescript
$(document).on "turboboost:success", (e, flash) ->
  console.log(flash) # -> {'notice': 'Post was successfully created.'}
```

### Scoped response rendering ###

Turboboost also provides some options for rendering AJAX responses at specific locations in the DOM:

|Rails controller render option | jQuery function|
|-------------------------------|:---------------|
|`:within`                      |`html()`        |
|`:replace`                     |`replaceWith()` |
|`:prepend`                     |`prepend()`     |
|`:append`                      |`append()`      |
|`:before`                      |`before()`      |
|`:after`                       |`after()`       |

The value can be any jQuery selector. Example usage:

``` ruby
respond_to do |format|
  format.html
  format.js { render partial: 'task', object: @task, prepend: "#todo-list" }
end
```

Commit message:

update readme regarding turbolinks updates and rendering scope
connect to #12

README.md, after:

## Turboboost ##

Turboboost extends the power of Turbolinks into the forms of your Rails app and provides additional convenient AJAX handlers for forms and links. It aims to be a seemless and logical addition to any Turbolinks-rocking Rails 3.2/4+ app. Currently it depends on jQuery. The main features are:

* Form response redirection is handled by Turbolinks.
* Customizable success and error handling through registered JavaScript, with support for Rails' Flash and optional error rendering built-in.
* Responses can also be rendered within a scoped DOM target using jQuery selectors.

##### Disclaimer #####

In recent history [Turbolinks](https://github.com/rails/turbolinks) has started to emulate some of these features with a slightly different approach. I will continue to support this library if people are still finding it useful.

### Installation ###

##### In your `Gemfile` #####

``` ruby
gem 'turboboost'
```

Or to live on the very edge:

``` ruby
gem 'turboboost', github: 'waymondo/turboboost'
```

Then `bundle install`.

##### In your `application.js` #####

``` javascript
//= require turboboost
```

This will also require jQuery, [jquery-ujs](https://github.com/rails/jquery-ujs), Turbolinks, if not already required. If you wish to register your scripts manually, you can like so:

``` javascript
//= require path/to/vendored/jquery
//= require jquery_ujs
//= require turbolinks
//= require turboboost/turboboost
```

##### In your view files #####

Add `turboboost: true` to your form / link helpers:

``` erb
<%= form_for :resource, turboboost: true do |f| ... %>

<%= link_to "Turboboosted Link", resource_path, turboboost: true %>
```

Or you can add the data attribute manually:

```
<form data-remote data-turboboost action="/foo"></form>

<a data-remote data-turboboost href="/bar"></a>
```

### Redirection with Turbolinks ###

In its simplest server-side implementation, a basic Turboboost controller action with redirection might look like this:

``` ruby
def create
  post = Post.create!(params[:post]) # <- trigger exception if model is invalid
  redirect_to post, notice: 'Post was successfully created.'
end
```

If the post is successfully created through a Turboboost-ed form, the app will visit the post's URL with Turbolinks. Otherwise, the redirect will happen like normal. You can opt out of redirecting through Turboboost with the attribute flag `data-no-turboboost-redirect`.

### Form GET requests ###

If a Turboboost form makes a GET request, it will serialize the form's data and then visit its action URL with the data serialized as parameters with Turbolinks. This allows Turbolinks-powered cached push/popState history navigation of controller actions with different parameter values (like a search form).

### Automatic form disabling handling ###

To prevent double-clicks on submit buttons from firing the form's action twice, Turboboost comes with automatic form disabling/enabling by default. When you restore a page from Turbolinks' cache, it will re-enable any submit buttons that it had disabled. You can disable this behavior and control your form's submittable state manually with:

``` coffee
Turboboost.handleFormDisabling = false
```

### Error handling ###

If the post in our example above is invalid, no redirect will happen and a `rescue_from` handler will pass the errors to JavaScript through the `turboboost:error` event:

``` coffee
$(document).on "turboboost:error", (e, errors) ->
  console.log(errors) # <- JSON array of errors messages
```

You can also trigger the JSON error messages explicitly with the method `render_turboboost_errors_for(record)` if you don't want to use the default `rescue_from` handler:

``` ruby
def create
  @post = Post.new(post_params)
  if @post.save
    flash[:notice] = 'Post was successfully created.'
    redirect_to @post
  else
    respond_to do |format|
      format.html { render :new }
      format.js { render_turboboost_errors_for(@post) }
    end
  end
end
```

To note: If you are rendering a response from a Turboboost-ed form or link, you will need to [specify its rendering scope](https://github.com/waymondo/turboboost#scoped-response-rendering).

Check out the [test controllers](https://github.com/waymondo/turboboost/tree/master/test/controllers) for more examples of controller syntax.

#### Automatic error message insertion ####

Optionally, Turboboost can render returned errors with the same HTML structure used in the default Rails generators and prepend it to the form. The HTML structure looks like this:

``` html
<div id="error_explanation">
  <ul>
    {{#errors}}
      <li>{{this}}</li>
    {{/errors}}
  </ul>
</div>
```

To turn it on:

``` coffeescript
Turboboost.insertErrors = true # same as 'prepend'
# other possible values:
# Turboboost.insertErrors = 'append'
# Turboboost.insertErrors = 'beforeSubmit'
# Turboboost.insertErrors = 'afterSubmit'
# can also be a jQuery selector:
# Turboboost.insertErrors = '.error-wrap'
```

#### Error internationalization ####

Turboboost will handle invalid `ActiveRecord` and `ActiveModel` error messages as well as basic HTTP error messages. For ActiveRecord validations, it will use [Rails' I18n lookup](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/i18n.html#translations-for-active-record-models) to retrieve the message wording. For other raised exceptions, you can customize the basic wording using the I18n namespace format `turboboost.errors.#{error.class.name}`:

``` yaml
en:
  turboboost:
    errors:
      "ActiveRecord::RecordNotFound": "Shoot, didn't find anything."
```

### Ajax flash message handling ###

There is also a `turboboost:success` event that is triggered and passed all current flash messages if they are present:

``` coffeescript
$(document).on "turboboost:success", (e, flash) ->
  console.log(flash) # -> {'notice': 'Post was successfully created.'}
```

### Scoped response rendering ###

Turboboost also provides some options for rendering AJAX responses at specific locations in the DOM:

|Rails controller render option | jQuery function|
|-------------------------------|:---------------|
|`:within`                      |`html()`        |
|`:replace`                     |`replaceWith()` |
|`:prepend`                     |`prepend()`     |
|`:append`                      |`append()`      |
|`:before`                      |`before()`      |
|`:after`                       |`after()`       |

The value can be any jQuery selector. Example usage:

``` ruby
respond_to do |format|
  format.html
  format.js { render partial: 'task', object: @task, prepend: "#todo-list" }
end
```
